                                             435
           SVERIGES RIKSBANK
      WORKING PAPER SERIES




Supply-Chain Finance:
An Empirical Evaluation of Supplier Outcomes




Niklas Amberg, Tor Jacobson and Yingjie Qi
May 2024
                         WORKING PAPERS ARE OBTAINABLE FROM


                                  www.riksbank.se/en/research
                            Sveriges Riksbank • SE-103 37 Stockholm
                                 Fax international: +46 8 21 05 31
                             Telephone international: +46 8 787 00 00



                     The Working Paper series presents reports on matters in
                    the sphere of activities of the Riksbank that are considered
                                to be of interest to a wider public.
                   The papers are to be regarded as reports on ongoing studies
                      and the authors will be pleased to receive comments.


The opinions expressed in this article are the sole responsibility of the author(s) and should not be
                   interpreted as reflecting the views of Sveriges Riksbank.
                     Supply-Chain Finance:
           An Empirical Evaluation of Supplier Outcomes*

                      Niklas Amberg†               Tor Jacobson‡              Yingjie Qi§

                              Sveriges Riksbank Working Paper Series
                                         No. 435, May 2024



                                                    Abstract
         Buyers and suppliers have diverging interests about trade-credit maturities: buyers
      desire long payment periods as a source of cheap funding, while suppliers prefer swift
      payments to avoid locking up scarce liquidity in idle assets. A fast-growing financial
      product innovation—supply-chain finance (SCF)—offers to resolve these diverging
      interests, but its net effect on suppliers is a priori unclear. We study the effects of SCF
      programs on suppliers using unique invoice-level data from a large Swedish bank. We
      find that SCF programs relax suppliers’ liquidity constraints and thereby enable them to
      grow their sales, employment, and investments.

      Keywords: Trade credit; supply-chain finance; reverse factoring; financial constraints.

      JEL: G21, G32, D22.




   * We thank Thorsten Beck, Thomas Flanagan (discussant), Jonathan Hsu (discussant), Vasso Ioannidou, Elena

Loutskina, Adriano Rampini, Karin Thorburn, and Fasheng Xu for valuable comments and suggestions. We are
also grateful to several representatives of the data-providing bank for their patience in helping us understand
the general features of the supply-chain finance market, as well as the specific characteristics of the bank’s own
SCF programs. The opinions expressed in this article are the sole responsibility of the authors and should not be
interpreted as reflecting the views of Sveriges Riksbank.
   †
     Research Division, Sveriges Riksbank. E-mail: niklas.amberg@riksbank.se.
   ‡
     Research Division, Sveriges Riksbank. E-mail: tor.jacobson@riksbank.se.
   §
     Copenhagen Business School. E-mail: yingjiee.qi@gmail.com.
1        Introduction

A common clash of interest in business-to-business transactions is the maturity of trade
credit, i.e., the length of the period between the supplier’s delivery of goods and the buyer’s
payment: buyers tend to want long maturities and suppliers short maturities, because
whereas a buyer’s trade payable is an interest-free loan that strengthens its working-capital
position, the corresponding trade receivable of the supplier is an idle asset locking up scarce
liquidity. These diverging interests are particularly problematic when the bargaining posi-
tions of the supplier and the buyer are unequal: Murfin and Njoroge (2015) show, for exam-
ple, that when large retailers impose longer payment periods on their smaller suppliers, the
latter are forced to curtail investment.
        Governments around the world have recently responded to the problem of prolonged
payment periods by legislating limits on trade credit maturities. While such legislation clearly
improves the working-capital situation of financially constrained suppliers, it may also have
unintended side effects by interfering with the useful purposes served by trade credit. Two
recent empirical papers illustrate this trade-off. On the one hand, Barrot (2016) finds that a
French reform that limited the maturity of invoices issued by trucking firms led to increased
efficiency at the industry level, with growth in firm entry and reductions in firm default, es-
pecially among financially constrained suppliers. On the other hand, a restriction imposed
on the trade-credit terms that a large Chilean retailer could obtain from its smaller suppliers
caused the retailer to internalize procurement to its own subsidiaries and reduce purchases
from its suppliers (Breza and Liberman, 2017). These findings suggest that one-size-fits-all
legislation of trade credit maturities is a blunt tool with unclear net effects on suppliers.
        In this paper, we study a financial product innovation that instead offers a market-based
resolution of suppliers’ and buyers’ incompatible interests regarding trade credit maturities.
This innovation, known as supply-chain finance (or reverse factoring), was first introduced
already in the 1980s, but has grown dramatically in recent years and is today an important
product on financial markets across the world: a report from a leading trade association es-
timates the global supply-chain finance volume in 2023 to be 2.35 trillion USD, up from 0.33
trillion in 2015 (Figure 1), which is almost as large as the total volume of commercial and
industrial loans extended by U.S. commercial banks (2.77 trillion USD in 2023).
        A supply-chain finance (SCF) program is a financial arrangement that involves three par-
ties: a supplier, a buyer, and a bank (or some other financier).1 The purpose is to separate the
    1
        There is, unfortunately, still no consensus on the exact definitions of the terms supply-chain finance and


                                                          1
                                     Figure 1: Estimated SCF volumes, 2015–2023

                                   A. Globally                                                     B. By region
               2,800                                                            1,400
                                                                                           Americas
               2,400                                                            1,200      Europe
                                                                                           Asia
               2,000                                                            1,000      Africa



 USD billion                                                      USD billion
               1,600                                                             800

               1,200                                                             600

                800                                                              400

                400                                                              200

                  0                                                                0
                   2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023                     2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023


This figure illustrates the development of SCF volumes in the world as a whole (Panel A) and by region (Panel
B) between 2015 and 2023, according to the estimates provided in the trade association BCR Publishing’s annual
World Supply Chain Finance Report. The figures are printed with BCR Publishing’s permission.



dates on which the supplier gets its invoices paid and the dates on which the buyer pays the
same invoices, and thereby to improve the working-capital situation for both parties. This is
achieved in a way which is similar to traditional factoring: the bank steps in as a factor and
purchases the invoices from the supplier at a discount shortly after they are issued, and then
receives payment from the buyer when the invoices fall due. The bank thus finances each
invoice during the period between the purchase and the payment, and receives interest via
the discounted price at which it purchases the invoices.
               The main difference between traditional factoring and supply-chain finance is the in-
volvement of the buyer. In traditional factoring, there is no agreement between the buyer and
the bank of any kind; instead, the supplier sells invoices to the bank without actively involving
its buyers in the process. This exposes the bank to certain risks, such as performance risk and
dispute risk, which makes it necessary for the bank to conduct credit assessments of both the
supplier and the buyer involved. An SCF program, on the contrary, is set up at the initiative
of a buyer, who signs a confirmation letter in which it commits to pay every invoice issued
by its suppliers within the program no later than the due date (also known as an irrevocable
payment undertaking), as well as approves every invoice to be financed by the bank. This fea-

reverse factoring. We treat supply-chain finance and buyer-centric reverse factoring as interchangeable terms,
but stick to the former throughout the paper and spell out exactly what we mean by this term in the following
paragraphs. Note, though, that some treat supply-chain finance as a broader concept than we do—including,
for example, pre-shipment finance and inventory finance—whereas others define supply-chain finance as we do
while treating reverse factoring as a narrower concept.


                                                              2
ture of SCF programs, to be described in more detail below, implies that there is no need for
the bank to screen or monitor the suppliers from a credit-risk perspective. Instead, the only
risk faced by the bank in an SCF program is the default risk of the buyer, which means that
the buyer’s creditworthiness determines the financing cost and other conditions of an SCF
program. SCF programs thus enable less creditworthy suppliers to piggyback on buyers with
stronger creditworthiness and thereby obtain better financing conditions than they could on
their own. For this reason, the typical SCF program is initiated by a large, well-established
buyer whose creditworthiness on average is stronger than those of its suppliers.
       Given these features, SCF programs are often described as a win-win solution for the sup-
plier and the buyer. However, SCF programs are in the great majority of cases also associated
with prolonged payment periods: a buyer may, for example, pay the supplier within 40 days
prior to the SCF program, but then stretch the payment period to 90 days while ensuring that
the supplier is paid by the bank after ten days, at a discount computed based on a financing
period of 80 days.2 The net effect of SCF programs on suppliers therefore depend on how
large the interest-rate reduction is compared to the cost of longer payment periods, which
increase the discount charged by the bank for any given interest rate. Thus, while SCF pro-
grams clearly benefit the buyers that set them up—a buyer with a strong bargaining position
wouldn’t initiate an SCF program unless it benefited from doing so—the effects of SCF pro-
grams on suppliers are a priori less clear.
       In this paper, we therefore undertake an empirical evaluation of the real and financial
effects of SCF programs on suppliers. We do so using data from two sources. The first is a
unique data set covering the entire SCF business of one of the major Swedish banks (hence-
forth ‘the Bank’). The Bank started offering SCF programs on a small scale already in 2005
and now operates SCF programs in four Nordic countries—Denmark, Finland, Norway, and
Sweden—as well as in Germany and the UK. The data that the Bank has granted us access
to comprise details on all invoices issued by suppliers in its Nordic SCF programs as well as
on the programs themselves, most importantly the start date of each program and the iden-
tities of the suppliers and buyers involved. The suppliers in the Bank’s Nordic SCF programs
are from countries all over the world, but we restrict the analysis on suppliers from the ten
countries with the most suppliers in the data, which are all European. The second data set is
Bureau van Dijk’s Orbis, which comprises harmonized financial accounts data for public and
private firms across the world, and is frequently used in cross-country firm-level studies (see,
   2
    The financing cost of SCF is collected from the supplier, since the bank purchases its invoices at a discount,
but the cost can in principle be shared with the buyer by increasing the price of the good or service.


                                                        3
e.g., Gopinath et al., 2017; Dı́ez, Fan and Villegas-Sánchez, 2021; and Gourinchas et al., 2024).
We use Orbis to retrieve key items from firms’ balance sheets and income statements, such
as accounts receivable, sales, employment, cash holdings, total assets, debt, and fixed assets.
   The empirical analysis centers on the hypothesis that SCF programs enable suppliers
to grow by alleviating their liquidity constraints. We test this hypothesis using a matched
difference-in-differences approach, in which we first match each supplier that enrolls in an
SCF program with the Bank (treated firms) to a firm that never enrolls in an SCF program with
the Bank (control firms) using nearest-neighbor matching, and then estimate difference-in-
differences regressions on the matched sample. The key identifying assumption underlying
this approach is that SCF suppliers would have developed similarly to their matched control
firms had they not enrolled in SCF programs when they did. We provide reasons for why
this assumption is likely to hold in section 2.3 below. We also corroborate the assumption
empirically by showing that treated firms and control firms (i) are similar across a broad set
of covariates in the year before treatment, and (ii) follow parallel trends over a five-year pre-
treatment period for all outcome variables that we study.
   The empirical analysis proceeds in three steps. The first is to verify that SCF program par-
ticipation indeed reduces the number of days it takes for a supplier’s invoices to be paid. We
find that suppliers’ receivables days on average decline by eight days in the years following
SCF enrollment, which amounts to 20 percent of their average pre-SCF receivable days. The
corresponding decline in the ratio of accounts receivable to assets is around four percentage
points, which implies that a substantial amount of funding is freed up by the shorter receiv-
able collection period that follows from a supplier’s enrollment in an SCF program.
   The second step in the analysis is to examine the real effects of SCF programs. We find that
suppliers’ sales, employment, and fixed assets significantly increase by around 10-15 percent
in the years following SCF enrollment, but that the effect on suppliers’ profitability, as mea-
sured by the EBITDA margin, is precisely zero. SCF programs thus enable suppliers to grow,
but not necessarily to become more efficient.
   The third and final step is to uncover the mechanisms underlying the real effects of SCF
programs. We provide three pieces of evidence corroborating our hypothesis that the real ef-
fects are due to relaxed liquidity constraints. First, we apply a test inspired by Banerjee and
Duflo (2014): suppliers’ net debt should be constant or increase following SCF enrollment
if the estimated real effects of SCF programs in fact are due to relaxed liquidity constraints.
This is because a liquidity-constrained supplier would use the funds freed up by an SCF pro-



                                                4
gram to expand production or invest, rather than to reduce net debt by paying down debt
or increasing cash holdings, as an unconstrained supplier would. We find that the estimated
treatment effect of SCF programs on net debt is not significantly different from zero, which
is consistent with the liquidity-constraint hypothesis. Second, we show that the share of the
SCF buyer in a supplier’s total sales on average declines somewhat after the supplier’s enroll-
ment in an SCF program. Hence, the increase in suppliers’ sales following SCF enrollment
is mainly due to increased sales to non-SCF buyers, which speaks against the alternative hy-
pothesis that the real effects are due to higher demand from the SCF buyer.
   Third, and finally, we test for heterogeneity in treatment effects across suppliers that are
more and less likely to be financially constrained prior to SCF enrollment. We find that SCF
programs have statistically significant real effects on constrained suppliers, but not on un-
constrained suppliers, and that the differences in the magnitudes of the respective treatment
effects are large. Moreover, we show that net debt increases substantially for constrained
suppliers following SCF enrollment, whereas unconstrained suppliers primarily respond by
increasing cash holdings. These findings further corroborate the liquidity-constraint hypoth-
esis. Moreover, the observed increase in net debt for constrained suppliers suggest that the
real effects of SCF programs is due not only to the liquidity immediately freed up by the re-
duced need to finance receivables, but also to some combination of (i) an improvement in
the supplier’s access to external finance outside of the SCF program, and (ii) a reduction in its
desired liquidity buffers as a consequence of lower liquidity risk.
   This paper is to our knowledge the first empirical study of how supply-chain finance pro-
grams affect suppliers. Whereas a large theoretical literature in operations research studies
the costs and benefits of SCF for suppliers and buyers, the empirical literature is limited due
to the scarcity of suitable data on SCF programs (see Gelsomino et al., 2016, for an extensive
literature review and Kouvelis and Xu, 2021, for an important recent theoretical contribution).
Our key contribution is therefore to document the real effects of SCF programs on suppliers—
as well as the underlying mechanism by which these effects arise—and thereby provide novel
evidence on the functioning of a fast-growing financing solution that has become an impor-
tant part of financial markets in recent years. In doing so, we add to the literature on the real
effects of trade credit arrangements (e.g., Barrot, 2016, and Breza and Liberman, 2017), as well
as to the broader literature on how working-capital constraints affect firms’ ability yo develop
and grow (e.g., Banerjee and Duflo, 2014, and Benmelech, Bergman and Seru, 2021).
   The empirical papers closest to ours are Shou, Shao and Wang (2021)—who find posi-



                                               5
tive effects of SCF programs on the profitability of Chinese buyers—and Wuttke, Rosenzweig
and Heese (2019) and Huang et al. (2020), who use survey data to study the determinants of
supplier enrollment in SCF programs. More recently, Chuk, Lourie and Yoo (2024) use propri-
etary data obtained from a large financial institution that acts as a third-party intermediary in
SCF transactions to show that payable days within supplier-buyer pairs indeed are prolonged
when supply-chain finance programs are adopted.



2        Data and Empirical Framework

2.1        Data sources

The empirical analysis is based on two main data sets. The first was provided to us by one
of the major Swedish banks (‘the Bank’) and contains detailed information about its entire
Nordic receivables-financing business. More specifically, the data set covers every loan fa-
cility extended by the Bank within its receivables-financing business, which consists of three
main product offerings: lending secured by receivables, traditional factoring, and supply-
chain finance (or ‘reverse factoring’). We observe both facility-level information—such as
start date, interest rate, and advance rate—and information about each invoice financed un-
der a given loan facility—for example the date the invoice was issued, the amount to be paid,
the due date, the date the invoice was actually paid, and the respective identities of the sup-
plier and the buyer. The receivables-finance data spans the period 2014–2022 and comprise
around 90,000 loan facilities and nine million invoices in total. The main information that we
extract from the Bank data is the identities of the suppliers that participate in SCF programs
and the year in which they enrolled. Importantly, while the data only cover the period 2014–
2022, we observe the start date of all loan facilities that were active at some point during this
period. We can therefore include suppliers that enrolled in SCF programs prior to 2014 in the
analysis as long as they remained enrolled in 2014.
        The second main data set is Bureau van Dijk’s Orbis, which comprises harmonized
financial-accounts data, as well as demographic and other corporate data, for almost 500
million firms—public as well as private—from more than 100 countries.3 The data in Orbis
is sourced from more than 170 governmental and commercial information providers across
the globe; the financial-accounts data for European firms, which is what we use in this paper,
are primarily sourced from official national business registers. We use the Orbis Historical
    3
        For a thorough description of the Orbis database, see Kalemli-Özcan et al. (2024).


                                                            6
Disk to ensure that our data comprise all firms that were active at any given point in time,
rather than only firms that are still active today (Kalemli-Özcan et al., 2024). Since firms in
most countries can choose the start and end month of their fiscal year, many observations
in the Orbis data do not correspond to calendar years. We deal with this by interpolating the
financial statements so that each observation corresponds to a calendar year.4


2.2     Institutional details regarding the Bank’s SCF programs

The first step in the initiation of an SCF program is that a buyer submits a proposal to the
Bank to organize an SCF program on its behalf. The Bank then evaluates the buyer to de-
termine if it meets the criteria for becoming an SCF buyer. The requirements on buyers are
quite restrictive: the Bank will typically only initiate SCF programs for large and established
buyers with strong creditworthiness. If the Bank and the buyer can agree on the terms of an
SCF program, the next step is for the buyer and the Bank to determine which of the buyer’s
suppliers to include in the program. The main requirement is that the inclusion of the sup-
plier generates a profit for the Bank, which in practice means that the supplier has to have a
sufficiently large annual sales volume to the SCF buyer and thus generate business volumes
that are large enough to cover the fixed costs associated with including it.5 While the Bank
does not apply a strict size threshold, a supplier typically has to be at least medium-sized ac-
cording to the official EU firm-size definition to generate business volumes large enough to
motivate its inclusion in an SCF program.
      Two key contracts are drawn up at the inception of an SCF program. First, the supplier
and the Bank signs a contract which states that the Bank intends to buy the invoices that the
supplier issues to the SCF buyer. The Bank also ensures at this stage that the seller under-
stands how to correctly assign invoices, so that the Bank obtains right in rem in all invoices
issued within the program. Second, the buyer signs a “confirmation letter” in which it com-
mits to pay the Bank for all invoices issued within the program no later than the respective
due dates. These contracts ensure that the financing provided by the Bank through an SCF
program is only exposed to the credit risk of the buyer, which is what enables suppliers in SCF
programs to obtain funding at conditions determined by the buyer’s creditworthiness.
      Once an SCF program is up and running, the financing process works as follows. The sup-
   4
     The length of the fiscal year is typically twelve months, but it can be shorter or longer when a firm enters or
exits, or when it changes the timing of its fiscal year. Our interpolation procedure handles these cases by rescaling
flow variables so that they correspond to twelve-month periods.
   5
     Recall that the Bank is not exposed supplier-side credit risk and that the supplier’s creditworthiness is there-
fore not part of the evaluation.


                                                         7
plier sends the buyer an invoice assigned to the Bank following each delivery. After inspecting
the delivery, the buyer approves the invoice and passes it on to the Bank, a critical step in the
process since the buyer’s approval eliminates any dispute risk around the invoice. The Bank
then pays the supplier the invoice amount minus the discount—the average time between in-
voice issuance and receipt of payment is around seven days in our data, of which the majority
is the time taken by the buyer to approve the invoice. After this, the supplier is essentially out
of the process as far as that particular invoice is concerned: the receivable disappears from
the supplier’s balance sheet and is replaced by an increase in cash holdings corresponding
to the amount received from the Bank. The previous receivable then shows up as a loan on
the asset side of the Bank’s balance sheet; for the buyer, meanwhile, the liability remains as a
payable on the balance sheet throughout the entire period.6 Finally, the buyer pays the Bank
no later than the due date of the invoice, which extinguishes the payable from the buyer’s
balance sheet and the loan from the Bank’s balance sheet, and concludes the financing of the
invoice.
      The discount charged by the Bank is computed on the basis of an interest rate—which
itself is the sum of a base rate and a margin—and the remaining days of the invoice at the
time the Bank purchases it, according to the following formula:
                                                                                
                                                                        Days
                           Discount = N ominalAmount ·                         ·i ,                            (1)
                                                                      DayCount

where N ominalAmount is the face value of the invoice, i is the interest rate (base rate plus
margin), Days is the number of remaining days until the invoice’s due date, and DayCount is
the number of days in the year according to the day count convention used in the program
(typically 360 or 365).


2.3     Empirical approach

The purpose of the empirical analysis is to evaluate the real and financial effects of SCF pro-
grams on suppliers. We do so using a matched difference-in-differences approach, in which
we first match each supplier that enrolls in an SCF program with the Bank (treated firms) to
a firm that never enrolls in an SCF program with the Bank (control firms), and then estimate
   6
     The classification of SCF liabilities as accounts payable (rather than bank debt) on the buyer’s balance sheet
has been the subject of controversy in recent years, with accounting firms and credit rating agencies calling for
increased transparency around buyers’ use of SCF. The accounting associations FASB and IASB have therefore
introduced new rules, according to which buyers may continue to classify SCF liabilities as trade payables, while
being required to disclose the size and key conditions of the programs in their financial statements.


                                                        8
standard two-way fixed effects regressions on the matched sample.
   More specifically, we begin by defining a firm as treated starting from the year in which
it enrolls in an SCF program with the Bank in the capacity of supplier. We then match each
treated firm with one control firm using Abadie and Imbens’ (2006) nearest-neighbor match-
ing approach and a small set of matching variables measured in the year prior to each treated
firm’s SCF enrollment. We conduct the matching with replacement—which implies that a
control firm may be matched to several treated firms—and using the Mahalanobis weighting
matrix to account for scale differences between the matching covariates.
   Having constructed the matched sample, we estimate the following two-way fixed effects
regression with event-time indicators:

                               5                               5
                                      γ k · 1 [t − Ti = k] +          β k · 1 [t − Ti = k] · Di + εi,t ,
                               X                               X
          Yi,t = αi + ηj,t +                                                                               (2)
                               k=−5                            k=−5


where Yi,t is the outcome of interest for firm i in year t, αi and ηj,t are firm and industry-year
fixed effects, Di is a treatment indicator equal to one if firm i enrolls in an SCF program with
the Bank at some point during the sample period, and 1 [t − Ti = k] is an indicator for being
k years from the SCF enrollment year. Note that the enrollment year Ti , and thus also the
indicator variable 1 [t − Ti = k], are defined at the level of matched pairs—i.e., a control firm
is assigned the same value for Ti as the treated firm to which it is matched. The coefficients
of interest are the β k for the post-treatment years (k ≥ 0), which capture the effect of SCF
program participation over a k-year horizon. The β k for the pre-treatment years, meanwhile,
capture any differences in pre-treatment trends between SCF firms and non-SCF firms and
are thus a key diagnostic for assessing the validity of the research design. We winsorize all
dependent variables at the first and the ninety-ninth percentiles and cluster standard errors
by firm in all regressions.
   It is occasionally convenient to have a single estimated treatment effect to refer to. We will
therefore also make use of the following compact pre-post version of equation (2):


                 Yi,t = αi + ηj,t + γ · 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] + β · 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] · Di + εi,t ,                  (3)


where [t − Ti ≥ 0] is an indicator for years after the SCF enrollment year, and all other vari-
ables are defined as before. The estimate of the coefficient β from (3) captures the average
effect of SCF enrollment on the dependent variable over the entire post-treatment period.
   Two remarks on the empirical approach are in order. First, we do not deem endogene-

                                                      9
ity stemming from a supplier’s decision to join an SCF program at a specific point in time to
be a major threat to the analysis. To begin with, SCF programs are set up at the initiative of
large buyers with many suppliers, which implies that the opportunity to join an SCF program
at a given point in time is essentially beyond any individual supplier’s control.7 Moreover,
few suppliers turn down an invitation to join an SCF program, according to the Bank; hence,
there is little scope for endogeneity stemming from suppliers’ decisions about whether to en-
roll in SCF programs once the opportunities arise.8 Hence, it is likely that the timing of a
supplier’s enrollment in an SCF program is largely exogenous to the characteristics of the
supplier, which is necessary to obtain unbiased estimates of the effects of SCF program par-
ticipation on suppliers. We will later corroborate this claim by showing that treated firms and
control firms (i) are similar across a broad set of covariates in the year before treatment, and
(ii) follow parallel pre-treatment trends for all outcome variables that we study.
       It is, on the other hand, true that firms enrolling in SCF programs tend to differ from the
average firm in the economy in certain dimensions—for example, SCF suppliers are on aver-
age larger and older than other suppliers. These differences are due to the fact that only sup-
pliers of large and established buyers get the opportunity to enroll in SCF programs, which
implies that the pool of potential SCF suppliers is a non-random subset of the population
of firms. Hence, the external validity of our results are limited to suppliers of large and es-
tablished buyers, but the fact that only a subset of suppliers get the opportunity to enroll in
SCF programs is not in itself a threat to the internal validity of the results. These considera-
tions guide our matching strategy, which is to conduct the matching based on a small set of
basic firm characteristics to increase the likelihood that controls are drawn from the pool of
potential SCF suppliers.
       Second, a series of recent papers have pointed out that two-way fixed effects models can
produce severely biased results when applied to settings with staggered treatment, like ours
(see, e.g., de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille, 2020, Callaway and Sant’Anna, 2021, and
Baker, Larcker and Wang, 2022). In short, the bias arises when treatment effects vary over
time and already-treated units act as controls, and can be severe enough to lead staggered
DiD effect estimates to have the opposite sign of the true treatment effect even if treatment

   7
     Senior staff at the Swedish receivables-finance division of the Bank informed us in an interview that they
could only recall a single case in which an SCF program was set up at the initiative of a supplier.
   8
     The specific reason for why so few suppliers turn down an offer to join an SCF program does not matter
here—for example, whether it is because they judge SCF programs to be beneficial or because they are pressured
into enrolling by important buyers. What matters is that most suppliers—for whatever reason—make the same
choice and thus that there is limited variation across suppliers that could give rise to selection bias.


                                                      10
assignment is random. We ensure that our estimates are not subject to this type of bias by
only selecting never-treated firms as controls when matching. The feasibility of this stringent
“clean control” condition in our setting is due to the large number of never-treated suppliers
with characteristics similar to the treated suppliers, which allows us to find good matches for
the treated firms among the never-treated firms.


2.4     Sample construction and matching

To construct the sample for the empirical analysis, we begin by identifying all firms that show
up as suppliers in SCF programs in the data from the Bank. While the majority of buyers that
set up SCF programs with the Bank are Nordic firms, many of their suppliers are not. Hence,
our initial data set consists of suppliers from all over the world, although the majority are
Nordic firms and most of the remainder are firms from other European countries. We restrict
the sample to firms from the ten countries with the most suppliers, which are the following
(ordered by number of suppliers in the raw data): Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Finland, Nor-
way, the Netherlands, Poland, Lithuania, Estonia, and Spain. Imposing this restriction leaves
911 of the initial 985 suppliers in the data.
      The next step is to merge the SCF suppliers with the Orbis data to obtain an annual firm-
level panel with financial-accounts data. The challenge in doing so is that we do not have an
unambiguous firm identifier common to both data sets. We therefore begin by undertaking
exact matching based on company names and then search manually in the Orbis database to
identify the correct match for the suppliers that we fail to match exactly on name. Through
these two steps, we are able to identify almost 75 percent of the SCF suppliers in the Orbis
data; for the remaining suppliers, we are either unable to identify a candidate match alto-
gether, or to identify a candidate that we are sufficiently confident is the correct one. The
final sample consists of 652 SCF suppliers with the following country distribution: Denmark
(258), Sweden (213), Germany (33), Finland (32), Norway (32), Lithuania (22), Estonia (17),
Spain (16), the Netherlands (15), and Poland (14).9 The SCF enrollment years for the sample
suppliers span the period 2005–2022.
      The final step in the sample construction is to match one control supplier to each SCF
supplier. As described above, we conduct the matching based on covariates measured in year
   9
     A limitation of the Orbis data is that sales is missing for around half of the Danish SCF suppliers. This is a
consequence of Danish law, which does not mandate all firms to report sales figures in their financial accounts. To
avoid reducing sample size unnecessarily, we keep these suppliers and include them in the estimations whenever
possible (we exclude sales from the set of matching variables when we match control firms to these suppliers).
The number of observations will therefore be lower in estimations where sales is part of the dependent variable.


                                                        11
Ti − 1, where Ti is the year in which supplier i enrolled in an SCF program with the Bank. We
match exactly on country and two-digit NACE industry, and then find the nearest neighbor
within the respective country-industry cells based on the Mahalanobis distance between the
treated firms and the potential controls in terms of the following matching variables: log as-
sets, log sales, number of employees, and the ratios of debt to assets, EBITDA to assets, and
cash holdings to assets.
         The outcome of the matching procedure is summarized in Table 1, in which we assess
the covariate balance between treated firms and their matched control firms in year Ti − 1.
We conduct the comparison in terms of the matching variables (Panel A), as well as a set of
variables not used in the matching (Panel B), and based on a comparison metric proposed by
Imbens and Rubin (2015), namely, the normalized difference in means. This metric captures
the difference in means across two groups expressed in terms of standard deviations and has
the desirable property that the likelihood of rejecting equality of means does not increase me-
chanically with sample size, which is the case for standard t-tests. Table 1 demonstrates that
treated firms and control firms are quite similar across all variables under consideration—to
see this, note that most normalized differences are close to zero and that the magnitude of
the largest difference is only 0.32.10 Hence, treated firms do not appear to differ meaningfully
from control firms in the year before their enrollment in an SCF program.



3         Results

3.1        The effect of SCF program participation on receivable days

The first step in the empirical analysis is to verify that SCF program participation indeed re-
duces the number of days it takes for suppliers’ invoices to be paid (receivable days). We
do so by estimating the baseline difference-in-differences model with a supplier’s average
receivable days as dependent variable (we follow standard practice and proxy average receiv-
able days as the ratio of accounts receivable to sales multiplied by 365). The results of this
exercise, plotted in Panel A of Figure 2, show that the receivable days of treated firms and con-
trol firms follow parallel trends in the years leading up to the former’s enrollment in the SCF
program. The receivables days of treated firms then decline significantly relative to control
firms—the decline takes place gradually over the supplier’s first year in the SCF program and
    10
    As a point of reference, Imbens and Rubin (2015) observe a maximum normalized difference of 0.30 in an
analysis of the data from an experiment with random treatment assignment and judge this to be evidence of
strong covariate balance.


                                                   12
                                         Table 1: Covariate balance


                                         Treated (SCF firms)           Matched controls           Normalized

                                          Mean            SD           Mean            SD          difference

 A. Covariates used in matching
 Assets (MEUR)                             76.6          287.0          75.4          302.9            0.00
 Sales (MEUR)                             172.5          579.5         161.5          609.6            0.02
 Number of employees                       302            948            254           859             0.05
 Debt/Assets                               0.68           0.20          0.62           0.23            0.32
 EBITDA/Assets                             0.13           0.17          0.13           0.15           –0.02
 Cash/Assets                               0.08           0.12          0.08           0.12           –0.01


 B. Other covariates
 Accounts receivable/Sales                 0.11           0.08          0.10           0.08            0.20
 Accounts payable/Assets                   0.18           0.14          0.14           0.14            0.28
 Asset tangibility                         0.26           0.22          0.30           0.24           –0.17
 EBITDA/Sales                              0.05           0.07          0.05           0.07           –0.06
 Net working capital/Assets                0.34           0.21          0.32           0.22            0.12
 Investment/Assets                         0.07           0.12          0.08           0.14           –0.03

 Number of firms                                   652                          652
 Number of unique firms                            652                          626

This table compares treated firms with the matched control firms in the year before the treated firm enrolled
in an SCF program with the bank. The covariates listed in Panel A were used in the matching; those in Panel
B were not. Asset tangibility is defined as the ratio of fixed assets to total assets. The normalized difference is
                           2           2
                                              0.5
defined as X̄Z<0 − X̄Z≥0 / SZ<0       + SZ≥0  /2     , where X̄ and S are the means and standard deviations of the
comparison variables in the respective groups (Imbens and Rubin, 2015).




                                                         13
                   Figure 2: The effect of SCF program participation on acounts receivable

                              A. Receivable days                                                                   B. Receivables/Assets
         6                                                                                     6

         3                                                                                     4
                                                                                               2




                                                                          Percentage points
         0
                                                                                               0
         -3
 Days                                                                                          -2
         -6
                                                                                               -4
         -9
                                                                                               -6
        -12                                                                                    -8
        -15                                                                                   -10
              -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0    1    2    3   4   5                                  -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0    1    2    3   4   5
                             Years relative to SCF start                                                           Years relative to SCF start


This figure plots the β k coefficients from the estimation of equation (2) with average receivable days (Panel A)
and the ratio of accounts receivable to assets (Panel B), respectively, as dependent variables. Average receivable
days are defined as the ratio of accounts receivable to sales multiplied by 365. The vertical lines correspond to
95-percent confidence intervals.




then stabilizes at a statistically significant decrease of around eight days, which corresponds
to around 20 percent of average pre-SCF receivable days. The results are very similar when
we instead estimate the model with the ratio of accounts receivable to assets as dependent
variable: after a gradual decline over the first year after SCF enrollment, the ratio stabilizes at
a level around four percentage points below its pre-SCF level (Panel B, Figure 2).
        The estimated decrease of eight days is very close to what one would expect, as the follow-
ing back-of-the-envelope calculation demonstrates. The average ratio of accounts receivable
to sales was 0.11 among treated suppliers in the year before SCF enrollment (Table 1, Panel
B), which implies an average receivable period of just over 40 days. The average time to pay-
ment for invoices in the SCF program, on the other hand, is around seven, which implies
that the days to payment for invoices to the SCF buyer on average decrease by 33 days when
the supplier enrolls in the SCF program (provided that the pre-SCF maturity of invoices to
the SCF buyer corresponded to the supplier’s average invoice maturity). Finally, the average
share of the SCF buyer in the SCF supplier’s sales was 20 percent in the SCF enrollment year
(see Figure 4 below). Given this, we would expect a supplier’s receivable period to decline by
33 · 0.20 = 6.6 days on average when enrolling in an SCF program, which, reassuringly, is close
to what we estimate in the data.11
  11
    The slightly higher estimate in the data suggests that the pre-SCF maturity of invoices to the SCF buyer was
around 5-7 days higher than the supplier’s average invoice maturity.


                                                                     14
                            Table 2: Real effects of SCF program participation


                                      (1)                    (2)                    (3)                    (4)
                                     Sales            Employment              Fixed assets           Profitability

   Treated × Post                  0.123***               0.088***              0.155***                –0.003
                                    [0.041]               [0.030]                [0.053]                [0.003]


   Firm FE                            Yes                    Yes                    Yes                   Yes
   Industry-year FE                   Yes                    Yes                    Yes                   Yes

   Number of obs.                    8,243                 10,770                11,157                  8,243
   Adjusted R2                       0.955                 0.954                  0.925                  0.531

This table reports estimation results for the compact difference-in-differences model specified in (3) where the
dependent variable is log sales, log employment, the ratio of investments to assets, and the ratio of EBITDA to
sales, respectively. Treated × Post refers to the main interaction term in equation (3), 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] · Di . Standard
errors clustered by firm are reported in square brackets. ***, **, and * denote statistical significance at the ten, five,
and one percent levels, respectively.




3.2     The real effects of SCF program participation

Having documented that SCF program participation leads to a statistically and economically
significant decline in suppliers’ receivable days, we turn to the real effects of SCF programs
on suppliers. We assess the real effects by estimating the difference-in-differences models
with, in turn, log sales, log employment, log fixed assets, and profitability (EBITDA margin)
as dependent variables. We begin by reporting results for the compact pre-post model.
      Column (1) in Table 2 shows that enrollment in an SCF program leads a supplier’s sales
to increase by a statistically significant 12.3 percent. The estimated employment and fixed-
assets effects, reported in columns (2) and (3), are also statistically significant and of similar
magnitude as the sales effect: employment increases by 8.8 percent, and fixed assets by 15.5
percent, in the years following a supplier’s enrollment in an SCF program. These results sug-
gest that SCF programs have a substantial positive effect on the real activity of suppliers. The
results in column (4) show, on the other hand, that the effect of SCF programs on suppliers’
profitability, as measured by the EBITDA margin, is precisely zero. Hence, SCF programs ap-
pear to enable suppliers to operate on a larger scale, but not more efficiently—or, conceivably,

                                                           15
                                                Figure 3: Real effects of SCF program participation

                                                  A. Sales                                                                               B. Employment
                     40                                                                                    25

                     30                                                                                    20

                                                                                                           15
                     20


 Percent                                                                               Percent
                                                                                                           10
                     10
                                                                                                                5
                      0
                                                                                                                0
                     -10                                                                                    -5

                     -20                                                                                   -10
                           -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0    1    2    3   4   5                                     -5    -4    -3    -2 -1       0    1    2    3   4   5
                                          Years relative to SCF start                                                                Years relative to SCF start

                                             C. Fixed assets                                                                             D. Profitability
                     40                                                                                    3

                     30                                                                                    2




 Percentage points                                                                     Percentage points
                                                                                                           1
                     20
                                                                                                           0
                     10
                                                                                                           -1
                      0
                                                                                                           -2
                     -10                                                                                   -3

                     -20                                                                                   -4
                           -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0    1    2    3   4   5                                 -5       -4    -3     -2 -1       0     1   2    3   4   5
                                          Years relative to SCF start                                                                Years relative to SCF start


This figure plots the β k coefficients from the estimation of equation (2) with log sales (Panel A), log employment
(Panel B), log fixed assets (Panel C), and the ratio of EBITDA to sales (Panel D) as dependent variables. The vertical
lines correspond to 95-percent confidence intervals.



any efficiency gains enabled by SCF program participation are offset by the discount on the
invoice payment that the supplier receives from the bank.
                     We now turn to the results from the estimation of the dynamic difference-in-differences
model, which are reported in Figure 3. Note first that the pre-treatment trends are parallel for
all four dependent variables, which demonstrates that the real activity of treated firms and
control firms developed similarly in the five-year period leading up to the former’s enroll-
ment in an SCF program. This further corroborates the claim that the timing of a supplier’s
enrollment in an SCF program is largely exogenous to the characteristics of the supplier itself.
Next, the coefficients for the post-treatment periods show that the sales, employment, and
investment effects of SCF program participation develop gradually over the post-treatment
period, which shows the beneficial effects of SCF program participation are long-lasting (al-

                                                                                  16
though the effect estimates become somewhat less precise for longer estimation horizons, in
particular for fixed assets).


3.3       Uncovering the mechanism: The role of liquidity constraints

Our hypothesis is, as discussed above, that the increase in suppliers’ real activity following en-
rollment in SCF programs is due to relaxed liquidity constraints. There are, generally speak-
ing, three channels through which an SCF program may relax a supplier’s liquidity constraints
and thereby enable it to grow. First, the reduction in receivable days induced by an SCF pro-
gram immediately improves a supplier’s liquidity by freeing up funds that were previously
locked up in receivables, which can then be used to finance production expansions. Second,
to the extent that lenders look favorably on firms with shorter receivable collection periods,
suppliers’ own access to external finance may improve following enrollment in an SCF pro-
gram. Third, SCF programs essentially eliminate the risk of late payments on invoices issued
to SCF buyers and thereby reduce the liquidity risk faced by suppliers. SCF suppliers may
consequently be able to reduce precautionary liquidity buffers and thereby free up funds for
operational purposes.12 In what follows, we conduct a series of empirical exercises to shed
light on the mechanisms underlying the real effects of SCF programs.


3.3.1      The effect of SCF programs on suppliers’ net debt

We begin by assessing the effect of SCF programs on suppliers’ net debt. The idea, which
follows the logic of Banerjee and Duflo (2014) closely, is the following. A supplier whose pro-
duction is suboptimally small due to liquidity constraints will use the funds freed up by an
SCF program to expand production; an unconstrained supplier operating at its desired level
of output will, on the other hand, use the unlocked liquidity to reduce net debt by either pay-
ing down debt or increasing cash holdings. Hence, we should not observe a decline in net
debt following SCF enrollment if the estimated real effects of SCF programs indeed are due to
relaxed liquidity constraints.
       We implement the test by estimating the pre-post version of the difference-in-differences
model with net debt and its respective components as dependent variables. The results are
reported in Table 3. The estimated effect of SCF program participation on net debt, reported
in column (1), is small and statistically insignificant, which is consistent with the hypothe-
sis that relaxed liquidity constraints explain the real effects of SCF programs on suppliers.
  12
       See Amberg et al. (2023) for a general argument along these lines.


                                                          17
                Table 3: Effects of SCF program participation on financial variables


                                 (1)               (2)              (3)                (4)               (5)
                             Net debt/          Cash/          Total debt/       Short-term        Long-term
                              Assets            Assets           Assets          debt/Assets       debt/Assets

  Treated × Post                0.005           0.009*            0.016*            0.015*             0.001
                               [0.011]          [0.005]           [0.009]           [0.009]           [0.006]


  Firm FE                        Yes              Yes               Yes               Yes                Yes
  Industry-year FE               Yes              Yes               Yes               Yes                Yes

  Number of obs.               10,910           10,992            11,344            11,428             11,345
  Adjusted R2                   0.703            0.614             0.717             0.719             0.693

This table reports estimation results for the compact difference-in-differences model specified in (3) with net
debt and its respective components as dependent variables. Treated × Post refers to the main interaction term in
equation (3), 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] · Di . Standard errors clustered by firm are reported in square brackets. ***, **, and *
denote statistical significance at the ten, five, and one percent levels, respectively.




More specifically, that the estimated net-debt effect is not significantly different from zero
suggests that the primary explanation for the real effects is the first mechanism discussed
above—namely, the immediate impact of shorter receivable collection periods on suppliers’
liquidity—because the second and third mechanisms imply that net debt should increase fol-
lowing a supplier’s enrollment in an SCF program.
    In columns (2)-(5), we unpack the overall net-debt effect by looking at each component of
net debt separately. Columns (2) and (3) show that the overall (insignificant) increase in the
ratio of net debt to assets of 0.5 percentage points reported in column (1) is due to an increase
in the ratio of debt to assets of 1.6 percentage points and an increase in the ratio of cash
holdings to assets of 0.9 percentage points. Hence, the increase in borrowing is largely offset
by the simultaneous increase in cash holdings. The results in columns (4) and (5), meanwhile,
show that the increase in total debt is entirely due to an increase in short-term debt.
    The corresponding estimation results from the the dynamic difference-in-differences
model are reported in Figure B1 in Online Appendix B; the main take-away is that treated
firms and control firms follow parallel pre-treatment trends in terms of net debt as well as all
components of net debt. Otherwise, the dynamic effect estimates yield the same conclusion

                                                         18
as one obtains from Table 3: SCF programs do not have a significant effect on net debt, as
the modest increases in cash holdings and debt offset each other. That suppliers on average
increase both debt and cash holdings following SCF enrollment is at first sight puzzling, but
turns out to have a straightforward explanation, as we will show in section 3.3.3 below.


3.3.2    The share of SCF buyers in SCF suppliers’ total sales

If liquidity constraints explain the real effects of SCF programs, we should observe a broad-
based increase in suppliers’ sales following SCF enrollment, rather than an increase driven
exclusively by higher sales to the SCF buyer. An alternative hypothesis is that buyers initiate
SCF programs when they grow fast and have high demand for intermediate inputs, and that
the sales increase of their suppliers following SCF enrollment therefore is due to higher de-
mand rather than relaxed liquidity constraints. If so, we would expect the share of the SCF
buyer in a supplier’s total sales to grow following the latter’s enrollment in an SCF program,
whereas we would expect it to remain constant or decrease if the overall sales increase is
due to relaxed liquidity constraints. Our second test of the liquidity-constraint hypothesis is
therefore to assess how the sales share of SCF buyers in SCF suppliers’ total sales develop in
the years following the latter’s enrollment in SCF programs.
    To this end, we aggregate all invoices issued by the SCF supplier to the SCF buyer in each
year and compute the sales share of the SCF buyer as the total invoiced amount during a
given year divided by the supplier’s total sales for the same year, as reported in its financial
accounts. We then plot how the average sales share of the SCF buyer develops in the years
following a supplier’s enrollment in an SCF program. Before doing so, two data limitations
are important to point out. First, we only observe the invoices issued by SCF suppliers to
SCF buyers after the SCF program has commenced, which implies that we cannot assess pre-
treatment trends in the sales share of the SCF buyer.13 Second, we only observe invoice-level
data from 2014 and onwards, and can therefore not include suppliers that enrolled in SCF
programs earlier than this in our assessment of SCF buyers’ sales shares.
    We plot the average sales share of the SCF buyer in the SCF supplier’s total sales in Figure
4. The figure shows that the average sales share is 20 percent in the year in which the supplier
enrolls in the SCF program; it then gradually declines over the following two years before
   13
      Since few SCF programs begin exactly at the start of a calendar year and we only observe invoices issued after
the start of a program, we need to re-weight the sales volume to the SCF buyer in the first year to get the sales
share right. We do this by dividing the observed sales volume to the SCF buyer in year t = 0 with the share of the
year in which the SCF program was active. Note also that a few observed shares are either smaller than zero or
larger than one; we handle these by dropping the former and setting the latter to one.


                                                        19
        Figure 4: The average sales share of the SCF buyer in the SCF supplier’s total sales

                                   .3

                                  .25

                                   .2


                    Sales share
                                  .15

                                   .1

                                  .05

                                   0
                                        0   1          2           3        4                     5
                                                Years relative to SCF start

This figure plots the average share of the SCF buyer in an SCF supplier’s total sales in the years following the latter’s
enrollment in an SCF program with the Bank. The sales share is computed as the ratio of the total invoice amount
to the SCF buyer during a given year, as observed in the bank data, to the supplier’s total sales during the same
year, as reported in its financial accounts. We re-weight the invoice amount to the SCF buyer in year t = 0 by
dividing it with the share of the year in which the SCF program was active; the latter is computed as the number
of days from the first SCF invoice to the last day of the year, divided by 365.



stabilizing at around 16 percent from that point onwards. The decline in the sales share of
the SCF buyer suggests that the sales increase observed after a supplier’s enrollment in an
SCF program is predominantly accounted for by increased sales to non-SCF buyers. This is
consistent with the notion that SCF programs enable suppliers to grow by relaxing liquidity
constraints, and speaks against the alternative hypothesis that the sales growth observed after
SCF enrollment is due to higher demand from the SCF buyer.


3.3.3    Heterogeneity in treatment effects depending on ex-ante financial constraints

The final test of the liquidity-constraint hypothesis is based on cross-sectional heterogeneity
in treatment effects across firms that are more and less likely to be financially constrained.
The logic is straightforward: if the real effects of SCF programs are due to relaxed liquidity
constraints, we should observe stronger real effects among firms that are ex-ante more likely
to be financially constrained. We implement the test by estimating a triple-differenced ver-
sion of the compact difference-in-differences model, where the additional interaction term

                                                          20
is an indicator for whether a firm is financially constrained.
       Our measure of financial constraints is, following Aretz, Campello and Marchica (2020),
based on Ferrando et al.’s (2015) financial-constraint index, which is created on the basis of
data from ECB’s SAFE survey on firms’ access to finance. The SAFE index is—like other widely
used proxies for financial constraints, such as the Kaplan-Zingales and Whited-Wu indices—
computed using the coefficients from a regression of a financial constraint indicator on a set
of observable firm characteristics. This index is well-suited for our empirical setting, since it
is derived from firm-level data that largely cover the same countries and time periods as our
data; we thereby mitigate the problem that a specific financial-constraint index may become
uninformative when applied to firms that are different from those used to construct the index
(see, e.g., Whited and Wu, 2006, and Farre-Mensa and Ljungqvist, 2016).
       We proceed by computing the SAFE index for each firm in our sample and then assign-
ing firms in the bottom tercile of the distribution to the group of firms that ex-ante are
less likely to be financially constrained (low SAFE score/unconstrained) and firms in the
top tercile to the group of firms that ex-ante are more likely to be constrained (high SAFE
score/constrained).14 Having done so, we estimate the following triple-differenced version of
the compact difference-differences model:


  Yi,t = αi + ηj,t + γ · 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] + δ · 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] · Ci + β · 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] · Di

                                                                    + τ · 1 [t − Ti ≥ 0] · Di · Ci + εi,t , (4)


where Ci is an indicator equal to one if firm i falls in the top tercile of the SAFE score distribu-
tion and zero if it falls in the bottom tercile of the distribution. All other variables are defined
as before. The estimated treatment effect is given by β̂ for unconstrained firms and by β̂ + τ̂
for constrained firms; the difference between the two is given by τ̂ . We report the estimation
results in Table 4.
       To begin with, columns (1)-(3) report the estimated treatment effects for the three real
outcomes for which the baseline treatment effect is positive and significant, namely, sales,
employment, and fixed assets. In each case, the treatment effect is large in magnitude and
statistically significant for constrained firms; for example, the employment of a financially
constrained supplier is estimated to increase by 17 percent in the years following enrollment
in an SCF program. For unconstrained firms, on the other hand, the estimated treatment
  14
     We refer the reader to Online Appendix A for details on our implementation of the SAFE index and to Ferrando
et al. (2015) for details on the index itself.


                                                       21
                     Table 4: Cross-sectional heterogeneity in treatment effects

                                  Real effects                             Financial effects

                         (1)           (2)          (3)           (4)            (5)             (6)        (7)
                        Sales       Employ-        Fixed       Net debt/       Cash/       Total debt/   Receivable
                                     ment          assets       Assets         Assets        Assets        days

 Unconstrained          0.094        –0.025        0.084        –0.021         0.029**          0.01     –7.077***
                       [0.063]       [0.062]      [0.109]       [0.021]        [0.014]         [0.015]    [2.249]
 Constrained           0.275***     0.165***      0.283**       0.039*         –0.003          0.038*    –7.231***
                       [0.080]       [0.062]      [0.119]       [0.022]        [0.007]         [0.021]    [2.263]
 Difference            0.181*        0.190**       0.199        0.060*        –0.032**         0.028      –0.154
                       [0.105]       [0.090]      [0.166]       [0.031]        [0.016]         [0.026]    [3.256]

 Number of obs.         4,343        4,397         4,519         4,306          4,354          4,528       4,317


This table reports subsample treatment effects from estimations of the triple-differenced model specified in (4).
Firms in the bottom tercile of the SAFE score distribution are classified as unconstrained, and those in the top
tercile as constrained (a high SAFE score corresponds to tight financial constraints). The estimated treatment
effects is given by β̂ for unconstrained firms and by β̂ + τ̂ for constrained firms; the difference between the two
is given by τ̂ . The number of observations refer to the the total number of observations across both estimations
in each column. Standard errors clustered by firm are reported in square brackets. ***, **, and * denote statistical
significance at the ten, five, and one percent levels, respectively.




effects are statistically insignificant for all three variables and considerably smaller in mag-
nitude than the corresponding estimates for constrained firms. The difference in treatment
effects across the two groups is, however, not statistically significant in the case of fixed assets.
    To shed light on the drivers of the differences in real effects across constrained and un-
constrained suppliers, we turn next to an assessment of heterogeneity in the financial effects
of SCF programs. We do this by estimating the triple-differenced model with net debt as well
as its two main components, cash and total debt, as dependent variables. The results are re-
ported in columns (5)-(7). The estimates show that the effect of SCF programs on net debt
is positive for constrained suppliers: the ratio of net debt to assets increases by 3.9 percent-
age points in the years following SCF enrollment, as a consequence of increased borrowing.
This implies that for financially constrained suppliers, the indirect channels through which
SCF programs may relax liquidity constraints—increasing credit supply and reducing the size
of desired liquidity buffers—are almost as important as the direct effect coming from the re-
duced necessity to lock up funds in receivables.
    Unconstrained suppliers, on the other hand, significantly increase their cash holdings fol-

                                                          22
lowing SCF enrollment, which is precisely what one would expect from a supplier that oper-
ated at its desired level of output when enrolling in an SCF program. The net-debt response
of unconstrained suppliers is nevertheless statistically insignificant, as part of the increase in
cash holdings is offset by an (insignificant) increase in borrowing. The differing responses
of constrained and unconstrained suppliers help explain the puzzling finding that both cash
holdings and borrowing increase following SCF enrollment in the full sample: namely, these
responses suggest that the cash increase is driven by unconstrained suppliers and the bor-
rowing increase by constrained suppliers.
    Finally, a potential concern with the subsample results presented in Table 4 is that the av-
erage treatment intensity could differ between constrained and unconstrained suppliers. To
see this, note that while our treatment indicator is binary, the underlying intensity of treat-
ment varies with the share of the SCF buyer in a supplier’s total sales—the larger is this share,
the larger is the effect of an SCF program on a supplier’s overall receivable days. Hence, if
the average treatment intensity differs between constrained and unconstrained suppliers, the
heterogeneous treatment effects documented in Table 4 could be due to different treatment
intensities, rather than the differing degrees to which firms are financially constrained (recall
that the liquidity-constraint hypothesis predicts differing real effects conditional on a given
treatment intensity). To assess this concern, we test whether the effect of SCF programs on
suppliers’ receivable days differ between constrained and unconstrained firms. The results,
reported in column (7) of Table 4, show that the estimated treatment effects are virtually iden-
tical for the two groups of firms. It is thus unlikely that differing treatment intensities explain
the heterogeneity in the treatment effects documented in Table 4.
    In sum, the results presented in this section show, first, that the real effects of SCF pro-
grams are accounted for by suppliers that are likely to be financially constrained ex-ante; and
second, that the behavior of these suppliers following enrollment in SCF programs is what
one would expect if they indeed are constrained. These results further corroborate the claim
that SCF programs enable suppliers to grow by relaxing their liquidity constraints.




4    Concluding Remarks

Supply-chain finance, a financial product innovation that offers to resolve buyers’ and suppli-
ers’ diverging interests about trade credit maturities, has grown dramatically in recent years.
SCF programs are often described as win-win solutions that benefit both suppliers and buy-

                                                23
ers, but the net effect of SCF participation on suppliers is a priori unclear and the extant em-
pirical evidence is scant. In this paper, we use unique invoice-level data covering the SCF pro-
grams operated by a large Swedish bank to empirically evaluate the real and financial effects
of SCF program participation on suppliers. We find that SCF programs have large positive real
effects—suppliers’ sales, employment, and fixed assets grow significantly in the years follow-
ing SCF enrollment—and that the underlying mechanism through which these effects arise is
relaxed liquidity constraints. These findings underscore that working-capital constraints are
a serious impediment to firms’ ability to develop and grow (cf. Banerjee and Duflo, 2014).
      One important policy implication of our findings concerns the legal limits on payment
periods in business-to-business transactions that many governments have imposed in recent
years, for example the European Commission’s Late Payment Directive. Trade credit issuance
has both costs and benefits for suppliers, as shown by Breza and Lieberman (2017), which
implies that legal limits on trade credit need not be uniformly positive even for the suppliers
that are intended to benefit from such legislation. Our results indicate that SCF programs
can be a way of preserving the benefits of trade credit for facilitating trade, while reducing
the costs of issuing trade credit for suppliers. Given this, regulators may want to consider
exceptions for market-based solutions, such as SCF-programs, when imposing legal limits
on payment periods.15




References

Abadie, Alberto, and Guido W. Imbens. 2006. “Large Sample Properties of Matching Estima-
  tors for Average Treatment Effects.” Econometrica, 74(1): 235–267.


Amberg, Niklas, Tor Jacobson, Anna Rogantini Picco, and Vincenzo Quadrini. 2023. “Dy-
  namic Credit Constraints: Theory and Evidence from Credit Lines.” Sveriges Riksbank
  Working Paper No. 422.


Aretz, Kevin, Murillo Campello, and Maria-Teresa Marchica. 2020. “Access to collateral and
  the democratization of credit: France’s reform of the Napoleonic Security Code.” Journal of
  Finance, 75(1): 45–90.

 15
      Kouvelis and Xu (2021) make a similar argument on the basis of a theoretical model


                                                        24
Baker, Andrew C., David F. Larcker, and Charles C.Y. Wang. 2022. “How much should
  we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?” Journal of Financial Economics,
  144(2): 370–395.

Banerjee, Abhijit V., and Esther Duflo. 2014. “Do Firms Want to Borrow More? Testing Credit
  Constraints Using a Directed Lending Program.” Review of Economic Studies, 81(2): 572–
  607.

Barrot, Jean-Noël. 2016. “Trade Credit and Industry Dynamics: Evidence from Trucking
  Firms.” Journal of Finance, 71(5): 1975–2016.

Benmelech, Efraim, Nittai Bergman, and Amit Seru. 2021. “Financing Labor.” Review of Fi-
  nance, 25(5): 1365–1393.

Breza, Emily, and Andres Liberman. 2017. “Financial Contracting and Organizational Form:
  Evidence from the Regulation of Trade Credit.” Journal of Finance, 72(1): 291–324.

Callaway, Brantly, and Pedro H.C. Sant’Anna. 2021. “Difference-in-Differences with multi-
  ple time periods.” Journal of Econometrics, 225(2): 200–230.

Chuk, Elizabeth, Ben Lourie, and Il Sun Yoo. 2024. “Supply Chain Finance: An Early Empiri-
  cal Examination.” Manuscript.

de Chaisemartin, Clément, and Xavier D’Haultfœuille. 2020. “Two-Way Fixed Effects Esti-
  mators with Heterogeneous Treatment Effects.” American Economic Review, 110(9): 2964–
  96.

Dı́ez, Federico J., Jiayue Fan, and Carolina Villegas-Sánchez. 2021. “Global declining com-
  petition?” Journal of International Economics, 132: 103492.

Farre-Mensa, Joan, and Alexander Ljungqvist. 2016. “Do Measures of Financial Constraints
  Measure Financial Constraints?” Review of Financial Studies, 29(2): 271–308.

Ferrando, Annalisa, Matteo Iudice, Carlo Altomonte, Sven Blank, Marie-Hélène Felt,
  Philipp Meinen, Katja Neugebauer, and Iulia Siedschlag. 2015. “Assessing the financial
  and financing conditions of firms in Europe: The financial module in CompNet.” ECB
  Working Paper No. 1836.

                                             25
Gelsomino, Luca Mattia, Riccardo Mangiaracina, Alessandro Perego, and Angela Tumino.
  2016. “Supply chain finance: a literature review.” International Journal of Physical Distri-
  bution & Logistics Management, 46(4): 348–66.

Gopinath, Gita, Şebnem Kalemli-Özcan, Loukas Karabarbounis, and Carolina Villegas-
  Sanchez. 2017. “Capital Allocation and Productivity in South Europe*.” Quarterly Journal
  of Economics, 132(4): 1915–1967.

Gourinchas, Pierre-Olivier, Sebnem Kalemli-Özcan, Veronika Penciakova, and Nick
  Sander. 2024. “SME Failures Under Large Liquidity Shocks: An Application to the COVID-
  19 Crisis.” Journal of the European Economic Association, forthcoming.

Huang, Qiuping, Xiande Zhao, Min Zhang, KwanHo Yeung, Lijun Ma, and Jeff Hoi yan Ye-
  ung. 2020. “The joint effects of lead time, information sharing, and the accounts receivable
  period on reverse factoring.” Industrial Management & Data Systems, 120(1): 215–230.

Imbens, Guido W., and Donald B. Rubin. 2015. Causal Inference for Statistics, Social, and
  Biomedical Sciences: An Introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Kalemli-Özcan, Sebnem, Bent E. Sørensen, Carolina Villegas-Sanchez, Vadym Volosovych,
  and Sevcan Yesiltas. 2024. “How to Construct Nationally Representative Firm Level Data
  from the Orbis Global Database: New Facts on SMEs and Aggregate Implications for Indus-
  try Concentration.” American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, forthcoming.

Kouvelis, Panos, and Fasheng Xu. 2021. “A Supply Chain Theory of Factoring and Reverse
  Factoring.” Management Science, 67(10): 6071–6088.

Murfin, Justin, and Ken Njoroge. 2015. “The Implicit Costs of Trade Credit Borrowing by
  Large Firms.” Review of Financial Studies, 28(1): 112–145.

Shou, Yongyi, Jinan Shao, and Weijiao Wang. 2021. “How does reverse factoring affect oper-
  ating performance? An event study of Chinese manufacturing firms.” International Journal
  of Operations & Production Management, 41(4): 289–312.

Whited, Toni M., and Guojun Wu. 2006. “Financial Constraints Risk.” Review of Financial
  Studies, 19(2): 531–559.

Wuttke, David A., Eve D. Rosenzweig, and Hans Sebastian Heese. 2019. “An empirical analy-
  sis of supply chain finance adoption.” Journal of Operations Management, 65(3): 242–261.

                                             26
Online Appendix for “Supply-Chain Finance: An Empirical
           Evaluation of Supplier Outcomes”

          Niklas Amberg, Tor Jacobson, and Yingjie Qi
A     Details on the computation of the SAFE score

The measure of financial constraints on which the cross-sectional heterogeneity analysis in
section 3.3.3 is based is the SAFE index, developed by Ferrando et al. (2015) on the basis of
data from ECB’s SAFE survey on firms’ access to finance. Ferrando et al. (2015) create the
SAFE index on the basis of the coefficients from a probit regression in which the dependent
variable is a financial constraint indicator and the explanatory variables are financial lever-
age (total liabilities minus accounts payable divided by total assets), the inverse of the inter-
est coverage ratio (interest payments over EBITDA), the profit margin (EBIT over sales), asset
tangibility (fixed assets over total assets), cash holdings (cash and cash equivalents over total
assets), and log total assets, along with time, industry, and country fixed effects. The financial
constraint indicator is based on firms’ responses in the SAFE survey. More specifically, it is
equal to one for firms that report (i) having had a loan application rejected, either fully or par-
tially, (ii) having rejected a loan offer because the cost was too high, or (iii) having abstained
from applying for a loan for fear of rejection.
     Ferrando et al. (2015) work with two different measures of financial leverage and construct
one constraint index for each measure. We measure financial leverage as total liabilities mi-
nus accounts payable divided by total assets, and therefore use the following version of the
SAFE index (see Table 4 in Ferrando et al., 2015):


    SAF Ei,t = 0.51 · F inancialLeveragei,t + 0.31 · InverseICRi,t − 0.22 · P rof itM argini,t

                 − 0.09 · AssetT angibilityi,t − 1.26 · CashHoldingsi,t − 0.02 · ln(Assetsi,t ). (A1)


     When computing the SAFE index for the firms in our sample, we first average all variables
over the pre-treatment period (as in Aretz, Campello and Marchica, 2020) and then winsorize
the averaged variables at the first and 99th percentiles. Note also that since the inverse of the
interest coverage ratio is a meaningful measure only for firms making positive profits, Fer-
rando et al. (2015) only include firms with positive values of this ratio when estimating the
probit regression that generates the coefficients for the index. Given this, we only compute
the SAFE index for suppliers whose inverse interest coverage ratios were positive on aver-
age over the pre-treatment period; suppliers with negative ratios are thus excluded from the
cross-sectional heterogeneity analysis.




                                                  i
B     Additional tables and figures


                      Figure B1: Effects of SCF program participation on financial variables

                                           A. Net debt/Assets                                                                        B. Cash/Assets
                      8                                                                                     8

                      6                                                                                     6

                      4                                                                                     4


            Percent                                                                               Percent
                      2                                                                                     2

                      0                                                                                     0

                      -2                                                                                    -2

                      -4                                                                                    -4

                      -6                                                                                    -6
                           -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0     1   2    3             4    5                       -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0     1   2    3   4   5
                                          Years relative to SCF start                                                           Years relative to SCF start

                                          C. Total debt/Assets                                                             D. Short-term debt/Assets
                      8                                                                                     8

                      6                                                                                     6

                      4                                                                                     4


            Percent                                                                               Percent
                      2                                                                                     2

                      0                                                                                     0

                      -2                                                                                    -2

                      -4                                                                                    -4

                      -6                                                                                    -6
                           -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0     1   2    3             4    5                       -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0     1   2    3   4   5
                                          Years relative to SCF start                                                           Years relative to SCF start

                                                                               E. Long-term debt/Assets
                                                               8

                                                               6

                                                               4


                                                     Percent
                                                               2

                                                               0

                                                               -2

                                                               -4

                                                               -6
                                                                    -5   -4   -3    -2 -1       0     1   2    3                 4    5
                                                                                   Years relative to SCF start


This figure plots the β k coefficients from the estimation of equation (2) with net debt, cash holdings, total debt,
short-term debt, and long-term debt—all scaled by total assets—as dependent variables. The vertical lines corre-
spond to 95-percent confidence intervals.




                                                                                             ii
Recent Working Papers:
For a complete list of Working Papers published by Sveriges Riksbank, see www.riksbank.se



The Macroeconomic Effects of Trade Tariffs: Revisiting the Lerner Symmetry Result               2019:363
by Jesper Lindé and Andrea Pescatori
Biased Forecasts to Affect Voting Decisions? The Brexit Case                                    2019:364
by Davide Cipullo and André Reslow
The Interaction Between Fiscal and Monetary Policies: Evidence from Sweden                      2019:365
by Sebastian Ankargren and Hovick Shahnazarian
Designing a Simple Loss Function for Central Banks: Does a Dual Mandate Make Sense?             2019:366
by Davide Debortoli, Jinill Kim and Jesper Lindé
Gains from Wage Flexibility and the Zero Lower Bound                                            2019:367
by Roberto M. Billi and Jordi Galí
Fixed Wage Contracts and Monetary Non-Neutrality                                                2019:368
by Maria Björklund, Mikael Carlsson and Oskar Nordström Skans
The Consequences of Uncertainty: Climate Sensitivity and Economic Sensitivity to the Climate    2019:369
by John Hassler, Per Krusell and Conny Olovsson
Does Inflation Targeting Reduce the Dispersion of Price Setters’ Inflation Expectations?        2019:370
by Charlotte Paulie
Subsampling Sequential Monte Carlo for Static Bayesian Models                                   2019:371
by David Gunawan, Khue-Dung Dang, Matias Quiroz, Robert Kohn and Minh-Ngoc Tran
Hamiltonian Monte Carlo with Energy Conserving Subsampling                                      2019:372
by Khue-Dung Dang, Matias Quiroz, Robert Kohn, Minh-Ngoc Tran and Mattias Villani
Institutional Investors and Corporate Investment                                                2019:373
by Cristina Cella
The Impact of Local Taxes and Public Services on Property Values                                2019:374
by Anna Grodecka and Isaiah Hull
Directed technical change as a response to natural-resource scarcity                            2019:375
by John Hassler, Per Krusell and Conny Olovsson
A Tale of Two Countries: Cash Demand in Canada and Sweden                                       2019:376
by Walter Engert, Ben Fung and Björn Segendorf
Tax and spending shocks in the open economy: are the deficits twins?                            2019:377
by Mathias Klein and Ludger Linnemann
Mind the gap! Stylized dynamic facts and structural models                                      2019:378
by Fabio Canova and Filippo Ferroni
Financial Buffers, Unemployment Duration and Replacement Labor Income                           2019:379
by Mats Levander
Inefficient Use of Competitors' Forecasts?                                                      2019:380
by André Reslow
How Much Information Do Monetary Policy Committees Disclose? Evidence from the FOMC's Minutes   2019:381
and Transcripts
by Mikael Apel, Marianna Blix Grimaldi and Isaiah Hull
Risk endogeneity at the lender/investor-of-last-resort                                          2019:382
by Diego Caballero, André Lucas, Bernd Schwaab and Xin Zhang
Heterogeneity in Households’ Expectations of Housing Prices – Evidence from Micro Data          2019:383
by Erik Hjalmarsson and Pär Österholm
Big Broad Banks: How Does Cross-Selling A Affect Lending?                                       2020:384
by Yingjie Qi
Unemployment Fluctuations and Nominal GDP Targeting                                             2020:385
by Roberto Billi
FAQ: How do I extract the output gap?                                                           2020:386
by Fabio Canova
Drivers of consumer prices and exchange rates in small open economies                               2020:387
by Vesna Corbo and Paola Di Casola
TFP news, stock market booms and the business cycle: Revisiting the evidence with VEC models        2020:388
by Paola Di Casola and Spyridon Sichlimiris
The costs of macroprudential deleveraging in a liquidity trap                                       2020:389
by Jiaqian Chen, Daria Finocchiaro, Jesper Lindé and Karl Walentin
The Role of Money in Monetary Policy at the Lower Bound                                             2020:390
by Roberto M. Billi, Ulf Söderström and Carl E. Walsh
MAJA: A two-region DSGE model for Sweden and its main trading partners                              2020:391
by Vesna Corbo and Ingvar Strid
The interaction between macroprudential and monetary policies: The cases of Norway and Sweden       2020:392
by Jin Cao, Valeriya Dinger, Anna Grodecka-Messi, Ragnar Juelsrud and Xin Zhang
Withering Cash: Is Sweden ahead of the curve or just special?                                       2020:393
by Hanna Armelius, Carl Andreas Claussen and André Reslow
Labor shortages and wage growth                                                                     2020:394
by Erik Frohm
Macro Uncertainty and Unemployment Risk                                                             2020:395
by Joonseok Oh and Anna Rogantini Picco
Monetary Policy Surprises, Central Bank Information Shocks, and Economic Activity in a Small Open   2020:396
Economy
by Stefan Laséen
Econometric issues with Laubach and Williams’ estimates of the natural rate of interest             2020:397
by Daniel Buncic
Quantum Technology for Economists                                                                   2020:398
by Isaiah Hull, Or Sattath, Eleni Diamanti and Göran Wendin
Modeling extreme events: time-varying extreme tail shape                                            2020:399
by Bernd Schwaab, Xin Zhang and André Lucas
The Effects of Government Spending in the Eurozone                                                  2020:400
by Ricardo Duque Gabriel, Mathias Klein and Ana Sofia Pessoa
Narrative Fragmentation and the Business Cycle                                                      2021:401
by Christoph Bertsch, Isaiah Hull and Xin Zhang
The Liquidity of the Government Bond Market – What Impact Does Quantitative Easing Have? Evidence   2021:402
from Sweden
by Marianna Blix Grimaldi, Alberto Crosta and Dong Zhang
Five Facts about the Distributional Income Effects of Monetary Policy                               2021:403
by Niklas Amberg, Thomas Jansson, Mathias Klein and Anna Rogantini Picco
When domestic and foreign QE overlap: evidence from Sweden                                          2021:404
by Paola Di Casola and Pär Stockhammar
Dynamic Macroeconomic Implications of Immigration                                                   2021:405
by Conny Olovsson, Karl Walentin, and Andreas Westermark
Revisiting the Properties of Money                                                                  2021:406
by Isaiah Hull and Or Sattath
The cost of disinflation in a small open economy vis-à-vis a closed economy                         2021:407
by Oleksandr Faryna, Magnus Jonsson and Nadiia Shapovalenko
On the Performance of Cryptocurrency Funds                                                          2021:408
by Daniele Bianchi and Mykola Babiak
The low-carbon transition, climate commitments and firm credit risk                                 2022:409
by Sante Carbone, Margherita Giuzio, Sujit Kapadia, Johannes Sebastian Krämer, Ken Nyholm and
Katia Vozian
Seemingly Irresponsible but Welfare Improving Fiscal Policy at the Lower Bound                      2022:410
by Roberto M. Billi and Carl E. Walsh
Pension Reform and Wealth Inequality: Evidence from Denmark                                         2022:411
by Torben M. Andersen, Joydeep Bhattacharya, Anna Grodecka-Messi and Katja Mann
Inflation Targeting or Fiscal Activism?                                                             2022:412
by Roberto M. Billi
Trading volume and liquidity provision in cryptocurrency markets                                    2022:413
by Daniele Bianchi, Mykola Babiak and Alexander Dickerson
DISPERSION OVER THE BUSINESS CYCLE: PASSTHROUGH, PRODUCTIVITY, AND DEMAND                           2022:414
by Mikael Carlsson, Alex Clymo and Knut-Eric Joslin
Electoral Cycles in Macroeconomic Forecasts                                                         2022:415
by Davide Cipullo and André Reslow
The Curious Incidence of Monetary Policy Across the Income Distribution                             2022:416
by Tobias Broer, John Kramer and Kurt Mitman
Central Bank Mandates and Monetary Policy Stances: through the Lens of Federal Reserve Speeches     2022:417
by Christoph Bertsch, Isaiah Hull, Robin L. Lumsdaine, and Xin Zhang
The Political Costs of Austerity                                                                    2022:418
by Ricardo Duque Gabriel, Mathias Klein and Ana Sofia Pessoa
Central bank asset purchases: Insights from quantitative easing auctions of government bonds        2023:419
by Stefan Laséen
Greenflation?                                                                                       2023:420
by Conny Olovsson and David Vestin
Effects of foreign and domestic central bank government bond purchases in a small open economy      2023:421
DSGE model: Evidence from Sweden before and during the coronavirus pandemic
by Yildiz Akkaya, Carl-Johan Belfrage, Paola Di Casola and Ingvar Strid
Dynamic Credit Constraints: Theory and Evidence from Credit Lines*                                  2023:422
by Niklas Amberg, Tor Jacobson, Vincenzo Quadrini and Anna Rogantini Picco
Stablecoins: Adoption and Fragility                                                                 2023:423
by Christoph Bertsch
CBDC: Lesson from a Historical Experience                                                           2023:424
by Anna Grodecka-Messi and Xin Zhang
Do Credit Lines Provide Reliable Liquidity Insurance? Evidence from Commercial-Paper Backup Lines   2023:425
by Niklas Amberg
Price Pass-Through Along the Supply Chain: Evidence from PPI and CPI Microdata                      2023:426
by Edvin Ahlander, Mikael Carlsson and Mathias Klein
Cash for Transactions or Store-of-Value? A comparative study on Sweden and peer countries           2023:427
by Carl Andreas Claussen, Björn Segendorf and Franz Seitz
Fed QE and bank lending behaviour: a heterogeneity analysis of asset purchases                      2023:428
by Marianna Blix Grimaldi and Supriya Kapoor
Monetary policy in Sweden after the end of Bretton Woods                                            2023:429
by Emma Bylund, Jens Iversen and Anders Vredin
Banking Without Branches                                                                            2024:430
by Niklas Amberg and Bo Becker
Climate impact assessment of retail payment services                                                2024:431
by Niklas Arvidsson, Fumi Harahap, Frauke Urban and Anissa Nurdiawati
Four Facts about International Central Bank Communication                                           2024:432
by Christoph Bertsch, Isaiah Hull, Robin L. Lumsdaine, and Xin Zhang
Optimal Monetary Policy with r* < 0                                                                 2024:433
by Roberto Billi, Jordi Galí, and Anton Nakov
Quantitative Easing, Bond Risk Premia and the Exchange Rate in a Small Open Economy                 2024:434
by Jens H. E. Christensen and Xin Zhang
Sveriges Riksbank
Visiting address: Brunkebergs torg 11
Mail address: se-103 37 Stockholm

Website: www.riksbank.se
Telephone: +46 8 787 00 00, Fax: +46 8 21 05 31
E-mail: registratorn@riksbank.se
